index.md, before:

# Table of contents 📚

[Inspiration](# Inspiration/Misc 😲) 😲

[Sound](# Sound 🔊) 🔊

[Code](# Code 👩‍💻) 👩‍💻

[Art/Level Design](# Art/Level-Design 🎨) 🎨

[Sharing](# Sharing 🤼) 🤼

[Preparing](# Preparing ⏮) ⏮

[Planning/Colab](# Planning ⌚) ⌚

# Inspiration/Misc 😲

[Tips](https://newsletter.ldjam.com/issues/game-jam-advice-for-ld48-566147) - A collection of tips from Wyatt Cheng on game jams

[Davinci Resolve](https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/products/davinciresolve/) - One of the best free video editors. Maybe if you want to do some video focused game or something? I don't know don't spend time making a trailer for a jam game is all I'm saying but this is here if you want it.

[Phil's LD 41 Keynote](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TjuZvDYqcRs) - Quick, entertaining and super helpful. Other keynotes have a lot of information but none have quite the same entertainment value as that which comes out of Pixel Prophecy

[Game Idea Generator](https://indiegamedev.net/2020/02/23/random-game-idea-generator/) - Pretty much does what it says!

[UI Ideas](https://collectui.com/) - Stuck on your user interface? Peruse some of these

# Sound 🔊

## Sound-Effects

  [ChipTone](https://sfbgames.itch.io/chiptone) - Tool for generating 8 bit chip tones.
  
  [Bfxr](https://www.bfxr.net/) - Desktop only (until JS version comes out) 8 bit sound effect generator
  
  [Sxfr/jsfxr](https://sfxr.me/) - Web based sound 8-16 bit effect generator

  [Audacity](https://www.audacityteam.org/) - Great audio editor for general needs
  
  [Reaper](https://www.reaper.fm/) - Much more powerful of the two but has an intersting situation regarding licenses, cost and legal iffyness. TLDR it's not realy 'free' per say so keep this in mind!

  [Ideas for Audio Recording](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wdehsasEozn6h3JQdyJjFgP70--Dk3WLQL-hU17j7Y0/edit?usp=sharing) - A list of objects that can be used to make       certain sounds
  
## Music
 
  [CakeWalk](https://www.bandlab.com/products/cakewalk) - Powerful Digital Audio Workstation for people wanting more granular control
  
  [BandLab](https://www.bandlab.com/) - Web Based DAW geared towards beginners by the same (sorta) people as CakeWalk.
  
  [LMMS](https://lmms.io/) - A lightweight DAW for intermediate users
  
  [Ardour](https://ardour.org/) - Yet another feature packed DAW, also well suited for single file audio editing
  
  [Bosca Ceoil](https://boscaceoil.net/) - 8 Bit music maker (Online version is not *online* at the moment)
  
  [Tonnoform](https://nikos1001.github.io/Tonnoform/) - Easy to use customizable desktop 8 bit music composer
  
  [BeepBox](https://Beepbox.co) - Another web based 8 bit music maker
  
  [Abundant Music](https://pernyblom.github.io/abundant-music/index.html) - Procedural Music Generator
  
  [SunVox](https://warmplace.ru/soft/sunvox/) - Modular music synthesizer

# Code 👩‍💻

## IDE

[Microsoft Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/) - A powerful defactor IDE for all languages

[Microsoft Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/?wt.mc_id=DX_841432) - A lightweight and fast Electron based IDE for many languages

[Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/) - Powerful Java and Python IDE (More languages are supported but those are the ones it's known for)

[Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/) - Super lightweight and fast code editor

# Bug fixing 🐛

[Grepper](https://www.codegrepper.com/) - A extension for your web browser that focuses on answering your coding questions

[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) - You should know this one: Probably the best Q and A site for all your coding problems

[Ludum Dare](https://ldjam.com/) - Don't forget you can always ask questions on the Ludum Dare website

# Art/Level-Design 🎨

## Making Art

## Pixel/Voxel Art
  
  [Magica Voxel](https://ephtracy.github.io/) - Tool for making 3d Voxel Art

  [Piskel](https://www.piskelapp.com/) - 2D Sprite editor

  [Aseprite](https://www.aseprite.org/) - 2D Sprite editor MUCH better of the two, but one of the only things on this list that is NOT FREE
  
  [LibreSprite](https://libresprite.github.io/) - 2D Sprite/Pixel art editor and animator

## 3D Modelling

  [Blender](https://www.blender.org/) - 3D Modelling, compositing, video editor and so much more swiss army knife

## Image Editing

  [Gimp](https://www.gimp.org/) - Super powerful image editor

  [Photopea](https://www.photopea.com/) - Less powerful image editor but runs in your browser

## Drawing

  [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) - Vector image editor

  [Pen and Paper](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210336) - Don't forget pen and paper is a great tool for art as well! Sketch something throw it on your printer or use your     phone. There are plenty of modern aps and even native support for scanning documents. Then you can use something like GIMP to edit the resulting image into something you like.

  [Krita](https://krita.org/en/) - Digital painting program

  [Fire Alpaca](https://firealpaca.com/) - Digital painting software
  
  [Spriter](https://brashmonkey.com/spriter-pro/) - Tool that allows for convential keyframe animation of sprites, rather than frame-by-frame

## Level Design/General Design

  [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) - Figma is a web-based vector graphics editor and prototyping tool

  [LDtk](https://deepnight.itch.io/ldtk) - Hugely powerful 2D Level Editor
  
  [Tiled](https://www.mapeditor.org/) - 2D level editor with a focus on tilesets and pixel art
  
  [NetRadiant](https://netradiant.gitlab.io/) - Brush based level editor

# Sharing 🤼

[Giphy](https://giphy.com/) - Turn video into gifs in your browser

[Screen2Gif](https://www.screentogif.com/) - Powerful desktop gif recording

[Carbon](https://carbon.now.sh/) - Share beautiful pictures of your code

# Preparing ⏮

[Unnofficial Ludum Dare soundtrack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vxYUr9e-GY) - The best way to perapre-y!

[Twitch streams](https://jammer.tv/) - Check out all the best game dev twitch streams

# Planning ⌚

## Collaborative planning/idea sketching

  [Jamboard](https://jamboard.google.com/) - A simple collaborative whiteboard
  
  [Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/) - A collaborative word proccessor that runs in your browser
  
  [VS Live Share](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/) - Quickly and easily collaborate with teammates to mockup code
  
  [Git](https://git-scm.com/) - A super powerful version control that should have it's own section. Use whatever clients you are comfortable with, CLI. [Tower](https://www.git-tower.com/), [Github Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) and whatever hosting you like, [GitHub](https://github.com/), [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/) and many more.

## Task organizing tools

  [Trello](https://trello.com) - Kanban board style task tracking
  
  [Should I participate in LD?](https://ldjam.com/events/ludum-dare/48/$233934/should-i-join-ludum-dare-48) - A great resource for people who are undecided ;)

## Time tracking
  
  [Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/) - A simple easy to use calendar for planning visually how long things will take

  [Working Hours](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/workinghours-time-tracking-timesheet/9mv51b301wfd?activetab=pivot:overviewtab) - Simple punch in punch out time tracking for    windows

Commit message:

QoL ahead of October Ludum Dare
Finally, fix chapter links and add handy-dandy back to top button at the end of each chapter.

index.md, after:

# Table of contents 📚

[Inspiration](#inspirationmisc-) 😲

[Sound](#sound-) 🔊

[Code](#code-) 👩‍💻

[Art/Level Design](#artlevel-design-) 🎨

[Sharing](#sharing-) 🤼

[Preparing](#preparing-) ⏮

[Planning/Colab](#planning-) ⌚

# Inspiration/Misc 😲

[Tips](https://newsletter.ldjam.com/issues/game-jam-advice-for-ld48-566147) - A collection of tips from Wyatt Cheng on game jams

[Davinci Resolve](https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/products/davinciresolve/) - One of the best free video editors. Maybe if you want to do some video focused game or something? I don't know don't spend time making a trailer for a jam game is all I'm saying but this is here if you want it.

[Phil's LD 41 Keynote](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TjuZvDYqcRs) - Quick, entertaining and super helpful. Other keynotes have a lot of information but none have quite the same entertainment value as that which comes out of Pixel Prophecy

[Game Idea Generator](https://indiegamedev.net/2020/02/23/random-game-idea-generator/) - Pretty much does what it says!

[UI Ideas](https://collectui.com/) - Stuck on your user interface? Peruse some of these

### [Back to Top](#table-of-contents-) 🔝

# Sound 🔊

## Sound-Effects

  [ChipTone](https://sfbgames.itch.io/chiptone) - Tool for generating 8 bit chip tones.
  
  [Bfxr](https://www.bfxr.net/) - Desktop only (until JS version comes out) 8 bit sound effect generator
  
  [Sxfr/jsfxr](https://sfxr.me/) - Web based sound 8-16 bit effect generator

  [Audacity](https://www.audacityteam.org/) - Great audio editor for general needs
  
  [Reaper](https://www.reaper.fm/) - Much more powerful of the two but has an intersting situation regarding licenses, cost and legal iffyness. TLDR it's not realy 'free' per say so keep this in mind!

  [Ideas for Audio Recording](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wdehsasEozn6h3JQdyJjFgP70--Dk3WLQL-hU17j7Y0/edit?usp=sharing) - A list of objects that can be used to make       certain sounds
  
## Music
 
  [CakeWalk](https://www.bandlab.com/products/cakewalk) - Powerful Digital Audio Workstation for people wanting more granular control
  
  [BandLab](https://www.bandlab.com/) - Web Based DAW geared towards beginners by the same (sorta) people as CakeWalk.
  
  [LMMS](https://lmms.io/) - A lightweight DAW for intermediate users
  
  [Ardour](https://ardour.org/) - Yet another feature packed DAW, also well suited for single file audio editing
  
  [Bosca Ceoil](https://boscaceoil.net/) - 8 Bit music maker (Online version is not *online* at the moment)
  
  [Tonnoform](https://nikos1001.github.io/Tonnoform/) - Easy to use customizable desktop 8 bit music composer
  
  [BeepBox](https://Beepbox.co) - Another web based 8 bit music maker
  
  [Abundant Music](https://pernyblom.github.io/abundant-music/index.html) - Procedural Music Generator
  
  [SunVox](https://warmplace.ru/soft/sunvox/) - Modular music synthesizer

### [Back to Top](#table-of-contents-) 🔝

# Code 👩‍💻

## IDE

[Microsoft Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/) - A powerful defactor IDE for all languages

[Microsoft Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/?wt.mc_id=DX_841432) - A lightweight and fast Electron based IDE for many languages

[Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/) - Powerful Java and Python IDE (More languages are supported but those are the ones it's known for)

[Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/) - Super lightweight and fast code editor

# Bug fixing 🐛

[Grepper](https://www.codegrepper.com/) - A extension for your web browser that focuses on answering your coding questions

[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) - You should know this one: Probably the best Q and A site for all your coding problems

[Ludum Dare](https://ldjam.com/) - Don't forget you can always ask questions on the Ludum Dare website

### [Back to Top](#table-of-contents-) 🔝

# Art/Level-Design 🎨

## Making Art

## Pixel/Voxel Art
  
  [Magica Voxel](https://ephtracy.github.io/) - Tool for making 3d Voxel Art

  [Piskel](https://www.piskelapp.com/) - 2D Sprite editor

  [Aseprite](https://www.aseprite.org/) - 2D Sprite editor MUCH better of the two, but one of the only things on this list that is NOT FREE
  
  [LibreSprite](https://libresprite.github.io/) - 2D Sprite/Pixel art editor and animator

## 3D Modelling

  [Blender](https://www.blender.org/) - 3D Modelling, compositing, video editor and so much more swiss army knife

## Image Editing

  [Gimp](https://www.gimp.org/) - Super powerful image editor

  [Photopea](https://www.photopea.com/) - Less powerful image editor but runs in your browser

## Drawing

  [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) - Vector image editor

  [Pen and Paper](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210336) - Don't forget pen and paper is a great tool for art as well! Sketch something throw it on your printer or use your     phone. There are plenty of modern aps and even native support for scanning documents. Then you can use something like GIMP to edit the resulting image into something you like.

  [Krita](https://krita.org/en/) - Digital painting program

  [Fire Alpaca](https://firealpaca.com/) - Digital painting software
  
  [Spriter](https://brashmonkey.com/spriter-pro/) - Tool that allows for convential keyframe animation of sprites, rather than frame-by-frame

## Level Design/General Design

  [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) - Figma is a web-based vector graphics editor and prototyping tool

  [LDtk](https://deepnight.itch.io/ldtk) - Hugely powerful 2D Level Editor
  
  [Tiled](https://www.mapeditor.org/) - 2D level editor with a focus on tilesets and pixel art
  
  [NetRadiant](https://netradiant.gitlab.io/) - Brush based level editor

### [Back to Top](#table-of-contents-) 🔝

# Sharing 🤼

[Giphy](https://giphy.com/) - Turn video into gifs in your browser

[Screen2Gif](https://www.screentogif.com/) - Powerful desktop gif recording

[Carbon](https://carbon.now.sh/) - Share beautiful pictures of your code

### [Back to Top](#table-of-contents-) 🔝

# Preparing ⏮

[Unnofficial Ludum Dare soundtrack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vxYUr9e-GY) - The best way to perapre-y!

[Twitch streams](https://jammer.tv/) - Check out all the best game dev twitch streams

### [Back to Top](#table-of-contents-) 🔝

# Planning ⌚

## Collaborative planning/idea sketching

  [Jamboard](https://jamboard.google.com/) - A simple collaborative whiteboard
  
  [Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/) - A collaborative word proccessor that runs in your browser
  
  [VS Live Share](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/) - Quickly and easily collaborate with teammates to mockup code
  
  [Git](https://git-scm.com/) - A super powerful version control that should have it's own section. Use whatever clients you are comfortable with, CLI. [Tower](https://www.git-tower.com/), [Github Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) and whatever hosting you like, [GitHub](https://github.com/), [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/) and many more.

## Task organizing tools

  [Trello](https://trello.com) - Kanban board style task tracking
  
  [Should I participate in LD?](https://ldjam.com/events/ludum-dare/48/$233934/should-i-join-ludum-dare-48) - A great resource for people who are undecided ;)

## Time tracking
  
  [Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/) - A simple easy to use calendar for planning visually how long things will take

  [Working Hours](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/workinghours-time-tracking-timesheet/9mv51b301wfd?activetab=pivot:overviewtab) - Simple punch in punch out time tracking for    windows

### [Back to Top](#table-of-contents-) 🔝
